Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. New bathroom design has to take on the global trend to individuality; The expanded faucet range Essence by GROHE (www.GROHE.com) offers an incredibly rich toolbox for the creative mind with the broadest range of colours, finishes and matching products; This freedom of choice comes with an incredible consistency in softened and humanized design offering best quality for a new individual era of bathroom design.  Countless options, endless flexibility: Following the global trend to individualization, the bathroom is becoming a highly considered space in the home. Architects and designers need the means to express their customers’ individual style. GROHE’s broadest faucet range Essence is an incredibly rich toolbox for the creative mind. It allows for a degree of individuality unthinkable before.  Essentially new! The full range, from faucets to showers and accessories, offers a tremendous variety with 10 possible combinations of deluxe colours and state-of-the-art finishes: Cool Sunrise, Warm Sunset, Hard Graphite and Nickel come either with an elegantly brushed or highly polished finish. They are as beautiful as they sound and work perfectly in high contrast and middle contrast environments as well as in tone-on-tone designs. Inspired by the latest global trends, they were carefully designed to fit into every bathroom style and colour environment.  Variety meets consistency  This new freedom of choice comes with an incredible consistency in design, with every spout and lever almost identical across all product types. The luxurious free standing shower, the floor mounted bath mixer or premium basin mixer in sizes from S to XL. Matching accessories such as high-end towel rails or soap dishes: They all speak the same design language of subtle and delicate transitions and simple, understated geometry.  The geometric structure is based on concentric cylinders. For the expanded line it has been slightly softened and humanized. Like the redesigned lever. “We have included a very slight taper on the handle, giving the user a sensual experience of precision and control they will never have felt before”, explains Michael Seum, Vice President of Design at GROHE. The introduction of controlled organic transitions will bring harmony to any interior concept, joining the products seamlessly across all zones of the bathroom. This contributes greatly to the overall high flexibility of the expanded Essence range, translating into practically any bathroom style, be it classic luxury, high-end vintage or natural atmosphere of well-being. Some products of the Grandera and Allure Brilliant lines will be available in some of the SPA Colours as well. Thus, the customers have the opportunity to equip their bathrooms with these GROHE SPA premium faucets in the coveted colours as well. “People want the familiarity of iconic classic design, but they also want to be pampered with an individualistic look and feel”, states Michael Seum. “The expanded Essence range enables architects and designers to deliver on that. It will be the natural first choice to open the floodgates of practically infinite options in a true celebration of creativity for the next few years.”  The new freedom of choice naturally comes with the well-known, durable GROHE quality and numerous highly advanced technological features such as GROHE AquaGuide and GROHE SilkMove. Essence’s pre-eminence in every aspect has won numerous prestigious international awards: the Iconic Award Interior Innovation, the Good Design Award, or the iF Product Design Award – just to mention a few. Essence takes bathroom design to a new level and makes it the natural first choice for architects, designers and consumers alike for years to come. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of GROHE.For more information, visit:  Facebook: www.facebook.com/lixilgroup  LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/lixil-group About GROHE:  GROHE (www.GROHE.com) is the world’s leading provider of sanitary fittings and has a total of over 6,000 employees, 2,400 of which are based in Germany. GROHE has been part of the LIXIL Group Corporation since 2014. As an international brand, GROHE pursues the brand values of technology, quality, design and sustainability, seeking to offer the “Pure joy of water”. GROHE has been developing new product categories since its inception. This includes the GROHE Blue and Red water systems and the recently-introduced GROHE Sense water security system, which is an innovative component in the growth market of smart home technology. Innovation, design and development are closely aligned with one another and are enshrined in the German site as an integrated process. As a result, GROHE products carry the seal of quality “Made in Germany”. In the past ten years alone, more than 300 design and innovation awards as well as several top rankings at the German Sustainability Award have confirmed GROHE's success. GROHE was the first in its industry to win the German government’s CSR prize and was also featured in the renowned Fortune® magazine’s ranking of Top 50 that are “Changing the World”. About LIXIL:  LIXIL (www.LIXIL.com) makes pioneering water and housing products that solve every day, real-life challenges, making better homes a reality for everyone, everywhere. Drawing on our Japanese heritage, we create world-leading technology and innovate to make high quality products that transform homes. But the LIXIL difference is how we do this; through meaningful design, an entrepreneurial spirit, a dedication to improving accessibility for all and responsible business growth. Our approach comes to life through industry leading brands, including INAX, GROHE, American Standard and TOSTEM. Over 70,000 colleagues operating in more than 150 countries are proud to make products that touch the lives of more than a billion people every day. Learn more at www.LIXIL.com. Media filesDownload logo