Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Marriott Hotels (www.MarriottHotels.com) in partnership with TED, hosted its first ever TED Fellows Salon in Egypt, sparking meaningful conversations on “Egypt’s Cultural Past and Present” at the Marriott Mena House, Cairo. Against the dramatic backdrop of the Mighty Pyramids of Giza, renowned TED Fellows, educational entrepreneur, Karim Abouelnaga, and East African singer and songwriter, Meklit Hadero, led the innovative and thought-provoking discussion providing guests the opportunity to engage and be inspired.  “At Marriott Hotels, everything we do is guided by our belief that travel expands the mind and triggers new and creative ways of thinking,” said Julius Robinson, Senior Vice President & Global Brand Leader, Classic Premium Brands, Marriott International. “We know that travelers today look for more in a hotel. Our partnership with TED allows us to be the catalyst for intellectual conversations. Hosting a TED Fellows Salon at Marriott Mena House, Cairo is a great opportunity to celebrate the historical and cultural wealth of this incredible destination.”  “Our TED Fellows program was established to bring together innovators and thought leaders to address some of the world’s most pressing issues through the sharing of ideas and strategies,” said Shoham Arad, Director of TED Fellows. “Our partnership with Marriott Hotels was a natural extension of what we were trying to create. The speakers at this Marriott Salon represent some of the brightest thinkers of their generation who are working towards making positive, meaningful and lasting change in their communities and we are delighted to bring this edition of TED Fellows Salon series to Cairo.”  TED Fellow Karim Abouelnaga is a Global Shaper and Echoing Green Fellow, as well as the founder and CEO of Practice Makes Perfect, a full-service summer school operator that partners directly with schools to deliver high quality education program to low-income communities. Joining Abouelnaga, as a speaker was TED fellow Meklit Hadero, an Ethiopian American singer and songwriter who makes music living the cultural in-between, both in her own luminous compositions and as a co-founder of the Nile Project. The Nile Project explores the music of the Nile basin, combining the differing styles from other countries along the river and unites hip-hop, traditional, and contemporary music with instruments and traditions from the past and present. Meklit is known for her soulful performing style, and for combining jazz, folk, and East African influences in her music.  The ongoing global partnership between Marriott Hotels and TED is now in its second year, following its launch in 2016 and has been expanded to include more exciting and innovative programming at Marriott Hotels in key destinations worldwide. Marriott Hotels is a brand that’s geared towards a new generation of travelers, who continuously seek fresh inspirations and creative ideas during their own life-changing journeys around the world.  In addition to the Cairo edition, TED Salons have been previously hosted in several Marriott Hotels globally, including Bangalore, Bangkok, Abu Dhabi, London, and Athens. Marriott Hotels also recently launched its newest Instagram story series, #MarriottHotelsxTEDFellows, which offers viewers original, inspiring content and an inside look at their favorite idea engine. To watch the series, follow @marriotthotels on Instagram and stay tuned for content throughout the year.  For more information, please visit TedTalksMarriott.com. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Marriott International, Inc..Media Contact:  Anjali Mehra  +971565396555  Anjali.mehra@marriott.com About Marriott Hotels:  With over 500 hotels and resorts in 65 countries and territories around the world, Marriott Hotels (www.MarriottHotels.com) is evolving travel through every aspect of the guest's stay, enabling the next generation to Travel Brilliantly. Boldly transforming itself for mobile and global travelers who blend work and play, Marriott leads the industry with innovations, including the Greatroom lobby and Mobile Guest Services that elevates style & design and technology. To learn more, visit www.MarriottHotels.com. Stay connected to Marriott Hotels on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/Marriott/), @marriott on Twitter (https://bit.ly/1wivW13) and @marriotthotels on Instagram (https://bit.ly/2TqCk8M). Marriott Hotels is proud to participate in the company’s award-winning loyalty programs – Marriott Rewards®, The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®, and Starwood Preferred Guest® (SPG). The programs, operating under one set of unparalleled benefits, enable members to earn points toward free hotel stays, achieve Elite status faster than ever, and seamlessly book or redeem points for stays throughout our loyalty portfolio of 29 brands and more than 6,700 participating hotels in 130 countries & territories. To enroll for free or for more information about the programs, visit Members.Marriott.comMedia filesDownload logo