Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Protea Hotels (ProteaHotels.com) by Marriott, part of Marriott International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAR) (www.Marriott.com), announced the signing of Protea Hotel by Marriott Accra, Kotoka Airport, the brand’s second hotel in Ghana and the first Protea Hotel by Marriott in the capital city of Accra. Owned by Baobab Hotels & Resorts which is a subsidiary of the YAMUSAH Group, the hotel will be strategically located in the prestigious airport residential area of Accra.  A mere 1.5 kilometers from the Kotoka International Airport, the hotel is also in close proximity to key diplomatic, government and commercial nodes.   “Continuing economic growth in Africa is driving greater investment in the continent, and Ghana is proving to be particularly attractive as an investment destination. Protea Hotels by Marriott, is one of Africa’s most well established hotel brands and we are delighted to debut the brand in the bustling and dynamic capital city of Accra. The hotel will meet the rising demand for quality lodging in the city, catering to both the business as well as the leisure traveler” said Volker Heiden, Vice President Protea Hotels by Marriott, Marriott International, Middle East and Africa.  According to Mr. Zibrim Yamusah, President and CEO of The YAMUSAH Group, “We are pleased to partner with Marriott International to bring the Protea Hotels by Marriott brand to Accra. The brand’s strong regional equity and awareness coupled with the global distribution of Marriott International and the strength of its loyalty program, we believe, are a powerful combination that will help position the hotel and drive business.”  Protea Hotel by Marriott Accra Kokota Airport will be a 17-story, 200-room hotel offering a restaurant, a lobby bar and lounge, small conference and meeting facilities, an air crew lounge, a gymnasium and a roof-top pool bar and lounge with uninterrupted views of the city. With its strategic location and the range of facilities it will offer, the hotel will be ideal for business and leisure travelers, as well as airline crew and the local community.  Protea Hotel by Marriott Accra Kotoka Airport is expected to open by end of 2019. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Marriott International, Inc..Media contact:  Anjali.mehra@marriott.com  +971565396555 About Protea Hotels by Marriott:  Protea Hotels (ProteaHotels.com) by Marriott® is the leading hospitality brand in Africa and it is one of the most widely recognized brands on the continent with over 90 hotels throughout South Africa and seven other African countries, including Zambia, Nigeria, Namibia, Ghana and Uganda amongst others. Protea Hotels by Marriott® is ideal for both business and leisure travelers by offering properties in primary and secondary business centers and desirable leisure destinations.  Each hotel offers modern facilities, proactive and friendly service and consistent amenities such as full service restaurants, meeting spaces, complimentary Wi-Fi, and well-appointed rooms, ensuring global standards for a high quality, relaxed and successful stay. Protea Hotels by Marriott® is the winner of 8 Coolest Hotel Group awards in the Sunday Times Generation Next surveys, the winner of the Ask Africa South African Customer Service Award 2013 and Icon Brand 2015, and the winner of the Hotels category in the Ask Afrika 2015/2016 Youth Brands Survey.  The hotel group was bought by Marriott International in April 2014 and forms part of Marriott’s global brand portfolio made up of 30 leading brands that operate more than 6,000 hotels in 122 countries. Protea Hotels by Marriott® is proud to participate in the industry’s award-winning loyalty program, Marriott Rewards® which includes The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®. Members can now link accounts with Starwood Preferred Guest® at members.Marriott.com for instant elite status matching and unlimited points transfer.    For more information, visit ProteaHotels.com About Marriott International:  Marriott International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAR) (Marriott.com) is based in Bethesda, Maryland, USA, and encompasses a portfolio of more than 6,700 properties in 30 leading hotel brands spanning 130 countries and territories. Marriott operates and franchises hotels and licenses vacation ownership resorts all around the world. The company also operates award-winning loyalty programs: Marriott Rewards®, which includes The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®, and Starwood Preferred Guest®. For more information, please visit our website at Marriott.com, and for the latest company news, visit MarriottNewsCenter.com. In addition, connect with us on Facebook (facebook.com/marriottinternational) and @MarriottIntl on Twitter (twitter.com/MarriottIntl) and Instagram (instagram.com/marriottintl). Media filesDownload logo