Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com), a leader in imaging solutions, recently hosted its annual Partner Conference held in Mauritius. During the event, Canon highlighted its commitment to the region and announced that the company recorded over 20 percent solid growth year-on-year for the past three years.  The Annual Partner Conference, which brought together more than 100 partners from 44 countries in Africa, served as a key platform for the company to highlight its achievements in 2018 and to outline the strategic growth priorities and opportunities in 2019.  Roman Troedthandl, Managing Director of CCNA, said: “The Annual Partner Conference is a flagship event for Canon and it is an opportunity for us to reflect on the positive growth we have achieved this year and look forward to the opportunities ahead of us. As we celebrate our achievements, we are also extremely focused on not losing this incredible momentum that we have sustained for the past few years and continue to discuss business growth opportunities and strengthen our valuable partnerships.”  During the event, Troedthandl explained that Canon will continue with its strategy of expanding its network of partners across new and existing markets in Africa, which further underlines Canon’s focus on being closer to its customer and strengthening its regional presence. By focusing on being closer to its customers, Canon also aims to improve its channel reach, enhance channel visibility and monitor channel sell on reporting in 2019 and beyond.  “Africa is a region that is of strategic importance to us, and with the support of our partners, we have been able to make strong inroads in expanding our presence across the various and diverse markets. Over the past year we have continued to invest in the various markets to build representative offices, hire local teams, engage closely with new and existing partners to communicate and deliver the right products and solutions,” added Troedthandl.  At the Conference, Troedthandl also discussed the series of initiatives by Canon in the region over the past year which included expanding its presence with partners in new counties such as Mauritania, Niger and the Democratic Republic of Congo, all of which reflect Canon’s emphasis on being closer to its customers by providing targeted, on-ground support.  Troedthandl also delved into the strategic approach that Canon will peruse focusing on REACH, ENGAGE and GROW. This strategy for 2019 aims to capitalise on Canon’s partnership with its distributors, many of whom are well reputed names across African markets, by expanding its channel reach, penetrating into Tier 2 cities, and improving Canon’s brand equity by investing in both channel visibility as well as brand awareness campaigns across key markets.  In 2017, Canon expanded its work with local organisations that promote talent in photography and filmmaking. CCNA also hosted a series of workshops that strengthen the knowledge, capacity and skills of Africa’s creative and professional talents in film and photography and create rewarding career opportunities for them. These collaborations all complement Canon’s sustainability programme Miraisha, which has been inspired by the company’s corporate philosophy, Kyosei, that embodies the idea of living and working together for the common good.  Troedthandl confirmed that Canon will continue to expand its work to promote skills and careers in imaging technology through various workshops and initiatives, especially since the African youth population continue to seek growth and career opportunities in the digital realm where imaging plays a significant role.  The Partner Conference concluded with a gala dinner where Troedthandl handed awards to partners who have excelled in their performance across a various business and consumer sectors for 2018.  The winners for the 2018 CCNA Partner Conference are:  DSLR Best Performance Award: SILICON 21  Pro Video Best Performance Award: JAMAICA TRADING – NIGERIA Laser MHC Best Performance Award: SABI SYSTEMS  B2C Special Recognition Award: DISWAY Office and Consumables Best Performance Award: AITEK Office Color Best Performance Award: SABI SYSTEMS  LFP Best Performance Award: SILICON 21  B2B Special Recognition Award: BUROTIC EMBU Special Recognition Award: JAMAICA TRADING – KENYA  EMBU Special Recognition Award: SABI SYSTEM President's Award: JAMAICA TRADING – NIGERIA Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA).Media Contact:  Canon Central and North Africa   Mai Youssef  e. mai.youssef@canon-me.com ASDA’A Burson-Marsteller   Yasser Alvi | Nora Feidi  t. +9714 4507 600  e. yasser.alvi@bm.com | nora.feidi@bm.com About Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA):  Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 is a strategic step that aims to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the Africa continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA will ensure the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, it will manage sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. Further information is available at: www.Canon-me.com Media filesDownload logo