Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo Endeavor Management, a Houston based international oil and gas management consulting and business advisory firm, is pleased to announce a Strategic Alliance with Centurion Law Firm (www.Centurionlg.com), a Pan-African legal and business advisory group with offices in several African countries.  Through this Strategic Alliance, Endeavor and Centurion will bring expert advisory services to Governments, National Oil Companies and other African-based Companies to provide project evaluation, operational expertise, technical, commercial, and legal services. “The Strategic Alliance between our two organizations allows us to expand our expert advisory services and build upon our existing working relationships in Africa to support the oil and gas industry” says Bruce Crager, Executive Vice President of Endeavor Management. “I would like to thank James Harris, an Executive Consultant in Endeavor Management, who was instrumental in bringing our two organizations together.” “Working with one of the Oil and Gas Industries most experience firm only adds value to our work and many clients in Africa. With our Pro African strategy Endeavour will help many African Oil companies and National Oil Companies in maximizing their value alongside Centurion. Endeavour represents American Ingenuity at its best and it is going to work for Africa.” says NJ Ayuk, CEO of Centurion Group. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Centurion Law Group.Media Contact:  Mickaël Vogel  mickael.vogel@centurionlg.com About Endeavor Management:  Endeavor Management (www.Endeavoreag.com) is a management consulting and business advisory firm with a legacy of continuous service to the oil and gas industry for over four decades. We have been working with our clients to address emerging strategic challenges, support their projects and operational activities, and create greater business results.  Our Expert Advisory Group has provided clients with technical and business support and executed many operational strategies worldwide. About Centurion  Law Group:  Centurion Law Group (www.Centurionlg.com) is a pan-African corporate law conglomerate. We help our clients navigate the legal and regulatory environments of Africa’s many jurisdictions to make sure that they can do business efficiently and successfully. We offer unsurpassed legal and business solutions for Africa through a hybrid delivery model that lets our clients choose the most effective bespoke method of operation based on their particular business needs.