Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. TAB Finance, a new microfinance bank licensed by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea, joins Oradian’s (www.Oradian.com) global community of visionary financial institutions. With this strategic partnership, Oradian is expanding its presence in West Africa. TAB Finance is now enabled to boost financial inclusion in remote, hard-to-reach communities through Oradian’s toolset.  Microfinance institutions in frontier markets across West Africa are leapfrogging legacy systems and deciding to implement solutions that provide world-class best practices. Digitalisation is increasingly important because it offers fintech providers such as mobile money apps the capacity to integrate with core banking systems. With its cloud-based solution, Oradian is driving the digitalisation of its customers so that they can offer their services to the unbanked more efficiently. Oradian’s cloud-based core banking system enables financial institutions in West Africa to become more efficient with digital operations, make informed decisions and grow without incremental costs. With cloud banking technology, microfinance institutions are able to increase the number of clients they can service, expand their rural reach and further drive financial inclusion. Mamadou Alpha Balde, Managing Director of TAB Finance commented on TAB Finance’s collaboration with Oradian saying: “We recognised that Oradian provides cloud-based solutions relevant to the operations of our financial institution. We chose Oradian as TAB Finance’s digital strategy partner because Oradian is experienced across African markets, offers global best practice and shares our mission. We look forward to increasing operational efficiencies and enhancing our security.” Oradian’s teams based in Lagos, Nigeria and Accra, Ghana work with financial institutions through each step of their digital transformation: from data migration, training and implementation, to routine check-ins and continuous improvement. Cloud banking is eliminating manual processes and automating reporting, which enables financial institutions to access the live data they need to know control their portfolios. Onyeka Adibeli, Oradian’s Co-founder and Programme Director for Africa said, “In TAB Finance and their visionary leaders, we found mission-aligned partners who are committed to financial inclusion. With Oradian and initiatives from local government, TAB Finance will be enabled to overcome some of the major challenges of the microfinance sector and serve more clients across West Africa.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Oradian.Media Contact:  comms@oradian.com Social media links:  Facebook: http://bit.ly/2JUC3ci  Twitter: http://bit.ly/2y6OkFU  LinkedIn: http://bit.ly/2JzPOOn  YouTube: http://bit.ly/2JRDSqD About Oradian:  Oradian (www.Oradian.com) is a financial inclusion company serving financial institutions in remote, hard-to-reach communities. Using insights from its community of customers, Oradian offers a cloud-based toolset that smart financial institutions plug into to access best practice and efficiency. Its global community is made up of over 75 financial institutions in eleven countries with a concentration in the Philippines and Nigeria. Collectively, Oradian’s community of financial institutions provides access to financial services for over 2.8 million end-clients. About TAB Finance:  TAB Finance has a financial inclusion mission to help Guineans out of poverty. TAB Finance offers loans to smallholder farms, contractors, food sellers, private schools and other businesses and makes motorcycle loans in greater Conakry. The year 2019 will see expansion across Guinea and into insurance products. TAB Finance adopts best practices of the international microfinance industry under the oversight and guidance from The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea. TAB Finance is determined to try and welcome all to join to build a prosperous Guinea for all Guineans.Media filesDownload logo