Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, ETI, the Lomé-based parent company of the Ecobank Group (www.Ecobank.com), announces today the successful close of a USD 200 million syndicated loan facility.  The facility was oversubscribed at USD 268.5 million, with ETI increasing Deutsche Bank’s mandate as arranger from USD 150 million to 200 million. The facility supports ETI’s goal of maintaining a diversified funding base with strong market access.  The loan will be due for repayment in November 2019. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ecobank.Media Contact:  Mireille Bokpe-Anoumou  Corporate Communications  Ecobank Transnational Incorporated  Tel (Lomé): +228 22 21 03 03  Email: mbokpe@ecobank.com   Web: www.Ecobank.com  Twitter: @GroupEcobank About Ecobank:  Incorporated in Lomé, Togo, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (‘ETI’) is the parent company of the leading independent pan-African banking group, Ecobank (www.Ecobank.com). It currently has a presence in 36 African countries, namely: Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Congo (Democratic Republic), Côte d’Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The Group employs over 20,000 people in 40 different countries in over 1,200 branches and offices. Ecobank is a full-service bank providing wholesale, retail, investment and transaction banking services and products to governments, financial institutions, multinationals, international organizations, medium, small and micro businesses and individuals. Additional information on Ecobank can be found at Ecobank.com.