Silvino Schlickmann Jr., acting executive director, INTERPOL Global Complex for Innovation  “Tackling cybercrime cannot be resolved unilaterally by law enforcement alone, but is a joint responsibility which requires trusted relationships with the private sector. This new agreement with Fortinet (www.Fortinet.com) will ensure that law enforcement have access to the most comprehensive threat intelligence necessary to take effective action against cybercrime.”  Derek Manky, global security strategist, Fortinet “Organizations continue to struggle against evolving threats, an expanding attack surface, and a growing security skills shortage. Law enforcement, in particular, can also be hampered by the fact that cybercrime often crosses political and jurisdictional boundaries. Actionable threat intelligence with global visibility is the best way to move from being reactive to proactive in a world where cybercrime has no borders. No single organization has a complete view into the security landscape, which is why threat information sharing and collaboration between public and private organizations is critical.” News Summary Fortinet (NASDAQ: FTNT) (www.Fortinet.com), a global leader in broad, automated and integrated cybersecurity solutions, today announced that it has formalized its threat sharing with INTERPOL. A History of Close Threat Information Cooperation Between Fortinet and INTERPOL Fortinet has been an active member of an expert working group within INTERPOL for more than two years, providing cyber threat intelligence which has helped discover and identify multiple cybercrime operations. Last year, Fortinet was one of several private sector companies that provided support to an INTERPOL-led operation (https://goo.gl/j17Tef) targeting cybercrime across the ASEAN region, resulting in the identification of nearly 9,000 command-and-control (C2) servers as well as hundreds of compromised websites, including government portals. Previously, Fortinet also helped uncover (https://goo.gl/P12mU8) through close threat information cooperation between INTERPOL, Fortinet, and other private sector partners, a group of online fraudsters behind thousands of online scams totaling more than $60 million and involving hundreds of victims worldwide.  Fortinet Creating a Foundation for the Future of Cyber Threat Information Sharing and Privacy Protection Through Strategic Global Partnerships Fortinet helps shape the future of threat information standards and protocols through ongoing collaboration with global public safety and industry organizations. Fortinet is a founding member of the Cyber Threat Alliance (CTA) (https://goo.gl/m9rfbt) established in 2015. In 2016 Fortinet announced (https://goo.gl/Cd65U1) an industry partnership agreement within the framework of the NATO Industry Cyber Partnership (NICP) with the NATO Communications and Information (NCI) Agency.  Additional Resources Follow Fortinet on Twitter (https://twitter.com/Fortinet), LinkedIn (https://www.linkedin.com/company/fortinet), Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/fortinet), YouTube (https://www.youtube.com/fortinet), and Instagram (https://www.instagram.com/behindthefirewall). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Fortinet. Media Contacts: John Welton Fortinet, Inc. 408-235-7700 pr@fortinet.com INTERPOL Press Office press@interpol.int Investor Contact Peter Salkowski Fortinet, Inc. 408-331-4595  psalkowski@fortinet.com Analyst Contact Ron Davis Fortinet, Inc. 415-806-9892 rdavis@fortinet.com About Fortinet Fortinet (NASDAQ: FTNT) (http://www.Fortinet.com) secures the largest enterprise, service provider, and government organizations around the world. Fortinet empowers its customers with intelligent, seamless protection across the expanding attack surface and the power to take on ever-increasing performance requirements of the borderless network – today and into the future. Only the Fortinet Security Fabric architecture can deliver security features without compromise to address the most critical security challenges, whether in networked, application, cloud or mobile environments. Fortinet ranks #1 in the most security appliances shipped worldwide and more than 350,000 customers trust Fortinet to protect their businesses. Learn more at http://www.Fortinet.com, the Fortinet Blog, or FortiGuard Labs. FTNT-O Copyright © 2018 Fortinet, Inc. All rights reserved. The symbols ® and ™ denote respectively federally registered trademarks and common law trademarks of Fortinet, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. Fortinet's trademarks include, but are not limited to, the following: Fortinet, FortiGate, FortiGuard, FortiCare, FortiManager, FortiAnalyzer, FortiOS, FortiASIC, FortiMail, FortiClient, FortiSIEM, FortiSandbox, FortiWiFi, FortiAP, FortiSwitch, FortiWeb, FortiADC, FortiWAN, and FortiCloud. Other trademarks belong to their respective owners. Fortinet has not independently verified statements or certifications herein attributed to third parties and Fortinet does not independently endorse such statements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing herein constitutes a warranty, guarantee, contract, binding specification or other binding commitment by Fortinet or any indication of intent related to a binding commitment, and performance and other specification information herein may be unique to certain environments. This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve uncertainties and assumptions, such as statements regarding technology releases among others. Changes of circumstances, product release delays, or other risks as stated in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, located at www.sec.gov, may cause results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this press release. If the uncertainties materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. Fortinet assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, and expressly disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.