In a continuous effort to support children in need across the Middle East and Africa (MEA) region, Marriott International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAR) (www.Marriott.com) has kicked off the 11th edition of its highly successful Road to Awareness (R2A) campaign. The initiative will see a number of the hospitality group’s hotels participate in a range of fundraising activations for local charities throughout the year, in addition to an anchor fundraising 600km-cycle event around the Western Cape, South Africa between 2 – 4 August, 2018.   32 cyclists who work for Marriott International across the MEA region will be led on the challenge by passionate cyclist and founder of R2A – Guido de Wilde, Chief Operating Officer of Marriott International in the Middle East.  The selected riders will not only commit to riding the challenging 600 km over three grueling days, but they will also need to each raise USD 1,500 (ZAR 15,000) for their local charities. Combined with individual hotel fundraisers, the organization has been able to raise a staggering USD 9 million for children in need since its inception in 2008.  “I’m so very proud of the impact the R2A campaign has made over the last 11 years as well as the growth it is making, so that each year it is bigger and better than before, enabling us to help even more children from across the region. In previous years, we have collaborated with global charity partners and this year we are supporting local charities and hope to see the difference we are able to make through our very own eyes,” said de Wilde.  The group’s hotels organize a wide range of fund-raising activities such as charity auctions, fun runs, sporting events, bake sales and others, including a tennis tournament at Sheraton Club des Pins Resort & Towers, Algeria; 10km fun run hosted by Al Maha, a Luxury Collection Desert Resort & Spa in Dubai; a charity bazaar for new and second hand items to be held at Four Points by Sheraton Kuwait and Sheraton Kuwait, and the annual Westin Cape Town Charity Ball in South Africa among many others.  “With the hotels’ support we have a robust annual campaign that keeps the cause at the forefront of the minds of hoteliers, hotel guests, consumers, and Marriott International employees. Together, I’m positive that we can really make a difference to the region’s children in need,” de Wilde concluded.  This year for the first time, the hospitality group will unite with RELATE, a not-for-profit social enterprise who make hand beaded bracelets. RELATE has made 22,000 bracelets specifically for Marriott International’s Road to Awareness campaign so that participating hotels can sell them to help with their fundraising initiatives.  The confirmed charities include: UAE, Al Jalila Foundation; South Africa, Laureus Sport for Good; KSA, Disabled Children’s Association; Jordan, King Hussein Cancer Foundation; Lebanon, Bonheur Du Ciel; Seychelles, Soroptimist International Club of Victoria.  For the 2018 edition of the cycle challenge, Marriott International will be joined by Craig Edwards who is a guest rider from South Africa, and an experienced cyclist who will be guiding the group throughout the three days. The cyclist’s progress can be tracked on the Marriott International Road to Awareness Facebook page: https://www.Facebook.com/MarriottR2AinMEA/ Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Marriott International, Inc.. Media Contact: Deema Kingsmill-Moore +971 56 655 3796  Deema.Kingsmill-Moore@marriott.com     Bassel Barakat  +971 52 534 7568 MarriottInternational@fourcommunications.com                         Note on Forward-Looking Statements: This news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of federal securities laws, including the number of lodging properties the company may add in future years and similar statements concerning possible future events or expectations that are not historical facts.  We caution you that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in market conditions; changes in global and regional economies; supply and demand changes for hotel rooms; competitive conditions in the lodging industry; relationships with clients and property owners; the availability of capital to finance hotel growth and refurbishment; and other risk factors that the company identifies in its most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K; any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations we express or imply here.  We make these statements as of the date of this press release, and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. About Marriott International, Inc. Marriott International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAR) (www.Marriott.com) is based in Bethesda, Maryland, USA, and encompasses a portfolio of more than 6,500 properties in 30 leading hotel brands spanning 127 countries and territories. Marriott International operates and franchises hotels and licenses vacation ownership resorts all around the world. The company also operates award-winning loyalty programs: Marriott Rewards®, which includes The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®, and Starwood Preferred Guest®. For more information, please visit our website at www.Marriott.com, and for the latest company news, visit www.MarriottNewsCenter.com. In addition, connect with us on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/marriottinternational) and @MarriottIntl on Twitter (https://twitter.com/MarriottIntl) and Instagram (https://www.instagram.com/marriottintl). Media filesDownload logo Multimedia content Image: 2017 R2A cycle challenge in JordanImage: Westin KilomarathonImage: Guido de Wilde, Chief Operating Officer of Marriott International in the Middle EastDocument: Road To Awareness Announcement 2018