Swiss Prevention Clinic (www.SwissPreventionClinic.ch) and Park Hyatt Zurich (www.Hyatt.com) Collaborate to Promote Luxury Medical Tourism in Zurich and Switzerland.  Recently, the Swiss Prevention Clinic and Park Hyatt Zurich have begun collaborating to promote luxury medical tourism in Zurich, Switzerland, and surrounding areas. These efforts will provide a seamless process for international clients coming to the area primarily for medical reasons.  In the last few years, medical tourism has been on the rise as innovative medical treatments become available in different parts of the world. Potential patients are also becoming more aware of mental and physical health, and ways to be proactive about living a healthy life.  The Park Hyatt Zurich is located in the heart of the city and serves as a sleek and sophisticated boutique hotel. With large-scale guestrooms and upscale comfort, patients of the Swiss Prevention Clinic can stay at the Park Hyatt Zurich in complete relaxation. The Park Hyatt Zurich accommodation includes:  Spacious, contemporary designed rooms and suites 160 sqm two-bedroom presidential suite offering a home away from home atmosphere Floor-to-ceiling windows Large bathrooms with separate tub and rain shower Private concierge services and VIP transfers Complimentary Wi-Fi  The Swiss Prevention Clinic uses an integrated approach to medicine, always considering the complete person, physically, psychologically, socially, in the prevention and management of disease. Patients may be coming to the clinic for a specialized checkup, DNA testing, regenerative medicine, or a preventative plan, among other options.  Together, Park Hyatt Zurich and The Swiss Prevention Clinic look forward to welcoming patients from around the world, and creating a meaningful, relaxing stay for them.  For more information on Park Hyatt Zurich, please visit https://goo.gl/i82vBy Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Swiss Prevention Clinic. Contact for media inquiries at Park Hyatt Zurich: Stephanie Scheiwiller  T. + 41 43 883 1045 F. + 41 43 883 1020 M. + 41 78 644 8723 E. Stephanie.Scheiwiller@Hyatt.com For more information on the Swiss Prevention Clinic, please visit  www.SwissPreventionClinic.ch Contact for media inquiries at Swiss Prevention Clinic: Gilles Repond c/o Consult’R  T. +41796502950  E. GRepond@Consult-r.net Media filesDownload logo Multimedia content Image: Park Hyatt Penthouse Suite (1)Image: Park Hyatt Penthouse Suite (2)Image: Swiss Prevention Clinic Lobby area (3)Image: Swiss Prevention Clinic Lobby area (4)