Freshworks Inc (www.Freshworks.com)., a leading provider of cloud-based business software, today announced an aggressive growth strategy to propel the ambitious expansion of its evolving South African footprint. “Our growth plan for South Africa completely leverages the company’s product strengths, financial capabilities, and technology innovation to drive industry-leading returns,” said Arihant Jain, Business Head, Middle East & Africa, Freshworks. Currently, Freshworks serves select customers such as Berkshire Hathaway, DHL, Naspers, Hi-Sense, Web Africa and partners such as Teleforge, Freshtech Africa and Stridesmart in South Africa but this base is expected to grow exponentially with the company’s new growth strategy for emerging markets such as this.  As part of this growth plan, the company is inclined to make accelerated investments in hosting tailored customer events, marketing meets and roundtable conferences to build its network of brand loyalists in the region. “The South African market expansion requires keen assessment and dedicated planning. Expanding in this region is an important way to magnify the size of the market we serve, and in an increasingly globally competitive marketplace, a necessary step for us.”  Jain further added how the Freshworks’ suite of industry-leading customer engagement products along with a growing customer and partner base in the region will augment the company’s local operations and transform the way businesses currently engage with their customers. “Our aim is to build rich, meaningful engagement with enterprises of all sizes that are looking for new cutting-edge solutions to power their customer and employee experiences.”  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Freshworks. Media Contact Sanjay Kumar – Product Marketing Manager, Middle East & Africa, Freshworks Sanjay.Kumar@Freshworks.com About Freshworks Freshworks Inc. (www.Freshworks.com) is the parent company behind the suite of products, which includes Freshdesk, Freshservice, Freshsales, Freshcaller, Freshteam, Freshchat and Freshmarketer. The company’s suite of products is designed to work tightly together to increase collaboration and help teams better connect and communicate with their customers and co-workers. Founded in October 2010, Freshworks Inc. is backed by Accel, Tiger Global Management, CapitalG, and Sequoia Capital India. Freshworks has its HQ in San Bruno, California and global offices in India, UK, Australia, and Germany. The company's cloud-based suite of SaaS products is widely used by over 150,000 customers around the world including the NHS, Honda, Rightmove, Hugo Boss, Citizens Advice, Toshiba and Cisco.