 With kitchen faucets, water systems, kitchen sinks and more, GROHE becomes No. 1 Kitchen System brand and one-stop shop for perfect combinations Patented surface technology, easy cleaning and extremely resistant stainless steel for quality one can see and feel Four perfectly combined GROHE sink and faucet bundles as an end-to-end solution From price entry solutions to high end premium sinks The kitchen is the heart of the home: a place to feel good, to cook together and to indulge. And there is one spot in the kitchen where everybody stops at countless times each day for filling pots, preparing vegetables and washing up after a big meal: the kitchen sink. With its unique and high-quality kitchen sinks range, GROHE (www.GROHE.com), the world’s leading provider of sanitary fittings, now sets new standards, making every use of the sink less of a chore – the ideal interplay of form and functionality in modern kitchens. GROHE sinks have been designed to be a PerfectMatch: Not only do they fit every type of kitchen scheme but can also be paired effortlessly with GROHE’s kitchen faucets and water systems, both in terms of design and practicality, with comfortable proportions and no splashing. Due to the QuickFix system and reversible designs as standard, the GROHE kitchen sinks, which are available as compact models with integrated drainers, large double sinks or chic built-in sinks, can be installed in minutes with no fuss or hassle. Another plus are features like the noise-reducing GROHE Whisper insulation or the automatic waste that means never plunging one’s hand into dirty water again.  Integrated into Any Kitchen and Suitable for Any Lifestyle The kitchen sinks with a minimum depth of 16 cm can be easily integrated into any kitchen, as a standard built-in sink, as a flush-mounted version, as an undermount sink or as a flat-edge model. There are eight different designs to choose from, from classic and timeless to minimalistic and reduced styles. In addition, the user can choose from two different stainless-steel grades and various steel thicknesses from 0.6 mm to 1.0 mm. Every GROHE sink exceeds the quality standard of the industry but one model (K400+ series) is available in the stainless-steel type of AISI 316 which is absolutely rust and corrosion resistant: This stainless steel is known as “marine steel”, since it is used primarily in the shipbuilding industry. In this version, the sink is particularly suitable for regions with high salinity. With the patented GROHE Satin Finish brushing process with special vegetable fibres (Tampico), the steel used for the sinks has a particularly smooth and therefore easy-to-clean surface. In addition, practical accessories such as multifunctional surfaces, attachable chopping boards or graters can be added. Hence, the selected model and the price fit the user’s lifestyle perfectly.  Small Details, Big Impact Well thought-out solutions make many steps in the kitchen easier. Whether one needs various sink sizes from compact to extra-large or integrated sink strainers – GROHE kitchen sinks including one, one and a half or two bowl options, provide many innovative details. Also, the water drainage function with an external control knob convinces quickly: It allows to empty the sink without reaching into the dirty water. Thanks to the unique GROHE Whisper insulation, noises caused by run-off water or handling of pots and pans are reduced to a minimum. In addition, the overflow, available for all GROHE sinks, avoids any spillage of water in case the faucets are inadvertently left open plus good drainage is ensured by the elegant diamond-shaped creases that make the water flow away more easily. Another highlight: The kitchen sinks can be installed very easily due to the QuickFix system and reversible designs as standard as well as two pre-punched faucet holes and an under-sink siphon complementing the scope of delivery and guaranteeing an all-in-one solution.  Perfect pair in one bundle Having a large selection of sinks and fittings, combined with different extras, it can be hard to choose from. Therefore, GROHE has put together four perfectly harmonising complete bundles consisting of a sink and faucet in the popular Bau, Eurosmart, Concetto and Minta lines.  For more information, please visit: www.GROHE.com  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of GROHE. MEDIA CONTACT Chief Communications Officer Thorsten Sperlich E-Mail: Media@GROHE.com Press Office Edelman.ergo GmbH Agrippinawerft 28, 50678 Cologne, Germany Phone: +49 (0)221 912887-24 | Fax: +49 (0)221 912887-77 M: GROHE@Edelmanergo.com | W: www.Edelmanergo.com About GROHE GROHE (www.GROHE.com) is the world’s leading provider of sanitary fittings and has a total of over 6,000 employees, 2,400 of which are based in Germany. GROHE has been part of the LIXIL Group Corporation since 2014. As an international brand, GROHE pursues the brand values of technology, quality, design and sustainability, seeking to offer the “Pure joy of water”. GROHE has been developing new product categories since its inception. This includes the GROHE Blue and Red water systems and the recently-introduced GROHE Sense water security system, which is an innovative component in the growth market of smart home technology. Innovation, design and development are closely aligned with one another and are enshrined in the German site as an integrated process. As a result, GROHE products carry the seal of quality “Made in Germany”. In the past ten years alone, more than 300 design and innovation awards as well as several top rankings at the German Sustainability Award have confirmed GROHE's success. GROHE was the first in its industry to win the German government’s CSR prize and was also featured in the renowned Fortune® magazine’s ranking of Top 50 that are “Changing the World”. About LIXIL LIXIL (www.LIXIL.com) makes pioneering water and housing products that solve every day, real-life challenges, making better homes a reality for everyone, everywhere. Drawing on our Japanese heritage, we create world-leading technology and innovate to make high quality products that transform homes. But the LIXIL difference is how we do this; through meaningful design, an entrepreneurial spirit, a dedication to improving accessibility for all and responsible business growth. Our approach comes to life through industry leading brands, including INAX, GROHE, American Standard and TOSTEM. Over 70,000 colleagues operating in more than 150 countries are proud to make products that touch the lives of more than a billion people every day. Learn more at www.LIXIL.com GROHE Feldmühleplatz 15 • 40545 Düsseldorf • Germany • Phone: +49(0)211/9130-3030 • www.GROHE.com Media filesDownload logo Multimedia content Image: Kitchen Design from a Single Source GROHE Sets Holistic Design Accents with Its New Kitchen Sinks and Bundles (1)Image: Kitchen Design from a Single Source GROHE Sets Holistic Design Accents with Its New Kitchen Sinks and Bundles (2)Image: Kitchen Design from a Single Source GROHE Sets Holistic Design Accents with Its New Kitchen Sinks and Bundles (3)Image: Kitchen Design from a Single Source GROHE Sets Holistic Design Accents with Its New Kitchen Sinks and Bundles (4)Image: Kitchen Design from a Single Source GROHE Sets Holistic Design Accents with Its New Kitchen Sinks and Bundles (5)Image: Kitchen Design from a Single Source GROHE Sets Holistic Design Accents with Its New Kitchen Sinks and Bundles (6)