The 2nd edition of the Two (02) day Zambia International Rugby 7s tournament will take place on Saturday 01 to 02 September 201 at the Lusaka Polo Club in the Showgrounds right in the centre of Lusaka, Zambia. The hosts Zambia are entering 2 teams in the tournament, with the first team being Zambia A and the second team Zambia B while the international teams expected this year are LESOTHO, MALAWI, BOTSWANA, ZIMBABWE, BLUE BULLS, SHARKS, GRIQUAS, BARBARIANS and the SPARTANS from NAMIBIA. The tournament kicks off at 09hrs with tickets pegged at k100.00 for adults and k50.00 for children valid for both days.  The tournament is bigger than last year with more international teams participating and lots of fun activities lined up including a play park for kids and an R&G after party on Day One. The Zambia Rugby Union President Gen Clement Sinkamba said his executive along with their partners R&G SPORTS MANAGEMENT are pleased to welcome the BLUE BULLS RUGBY UNION President Willem Strauss to this prestigious tournament which is still in its infancy but is already attracting high ranking sports personalities. Gen Sinkamba further added that the coming in of Lesotho, Malawi, Spartans, Griqua Barbarians and The Sharks Academy is an indication that Zambia was on the right track.  Former Zambia Sevens Development Coach Tom Chaloba also added his delight with the number of young ruggers who have been called into residential camp. “It is gratifying to see boys from the developmental team bringing some competition to the seasoned and more experienced players. This is good in the sense that each and every one of them will push in their very best so as to retain or get a place in the teams to be announced by the coaches. I'm sure the technical bench led by veteran sevens icon Andrew Kaminsa will do everything possible to bring a smile on the faces of the expectant local fans”  Zambia Sevens beat Zimbabwe Sables at the inaugural tournament played at the Lusaka Polocrosses Club in 2017 and are hoping to retain the trophy. Let the games begin!!!  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Zambia Rugby Union (ZRU). Media contact:  Rugby@APO-opa.org Media filesDownload logo