Download logo The Grand Patron of the National Orders, President Cyril Ramaphosa, hereby invites nominations from members of the public to put forward the names of any persons from all walks of life, that they believe deserve to receive the country’s highest honours, the National Orders.  The deadline for nominations is 07 September 2018. National Orders are the highest awards that the country, South Africa, through its President, bestows on its citizens and eminent foreign nationals. The President as the Grand Patron and fount of honour bestows these Orders and Decorations and is assisted by the Director-General in The Presidency, who is the Chancellor of National Orders and an Advisory Council on National Orders, in the execution of this responsibility.  The next National Orders awards investiture ceremony will take place in April 2019, honouring South Africans and eminent foreign nationals who have contributed to the achievement of a free, united, non-racial, democratic, non-sexist and prosperous South Africa in various ways. Also honoured by the awards, are citizens who have sacrificed life and limb to save others and those who have excelled in various fields. The National Awards ceremony contributes towards unity, reconciliation and nation building. President Ramaphosa hereby invites nominations for six categories of National Orders that are bestowed to deserving recipients, namely: The Order of Mendi for Bravery which recognises South African citizens who have performed acts of bravery. 	The Order of Ikhamanga which recognises South African citizens who have excelled in the fields of arts, culture, literature, music, journalism and sport. 	The Order of the Baobab which recognises South African citizens who have contributed to community service, business and economy, science, medicine and technological innovation. 	The Order of Luthuli which recognises South African citizens who have contributed to the struggle for democracy, nation-building, building democracy and human rights, justice and peace as well as for the resolution of conflict. 	The Order of Mapungubwe which recognises South Africans who have excelled and attained exceptional achievement to the benefit of South Africa and beyond. 	The Order of the Companions of OR Tambo which recognises eminent foreign nationals for friendship shown to South Africa. It is therefore an Order of peace, cooperation and active expression of solidarity and support. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of South Africa: The Presidency.