APO Group (www.APO-opa.com), the leading media relations consultancy for Africa and the Middle East, today announced it has begun its international search for a Head of Media Relations Division, to be appointed at the beginning of October 2018. This recruitment occurs at a time when APO Group is experiencing strong growth, creating a need for bright new talents to expand its team. The consultancy currently employs more than 75 collaborators including highly-skilled and experienced consultants, project managers, media analysts and researchers.  The Head of Media Relations will be based in Paris or London, from where they will lead the team, oversee the progress of each media project small and large up to 2M Euros (press events, media interviews, op-ed and article placement, photo and video production and distribution, media monitoring, etc…) and ensure the efficiency and high-quality of the media relations activity APO Group is renowned for. “We are looking for an experienced PR or Communications professional combining strong strategic and operational experience with a source of creative ideas and new proposals, who will take on the task of leading a cornerstone division within the organization,” said Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard, Founder and CEO of APO Group. “The company is developing at an incredible pace and hiring new talents is critical to continuing the provision of world-class services and delivering superior value to our clients and partners. This new position is a key role as the successful candidate will be responsible for establishing and implementing a strategic plan to organize and manage media relations projects across the globe for our 350+ clients.” In the space of few years, APO Group has successfully established itself as global authority within media landscapes. The company counsels the world's most influential businesses and institutions and, through its media relations expertise, contributes to the enhancement of their presence in Africa the Middle East and the rest of the world. Thanks to the team’s unique know-how and experience, APO Group has earned the trust of many organizations including the most prestigious Public Relations agencies such as Edelman, Hill+Knowlton Strategies, Fleishman Hillard, Ogilvy, APCO Worldwide, Havas MSL, Baird’s CMC who, to meet the needs of their clients, use APO Group services. In 2017, 56 PR agencies collaborated with the consultancy compared to 42 in 2016. A number that keeps increasing year-on-year. As the Head of the Media Relations division, the selected candidate will have the opportunity to be at the heart of a vibrant and fast-moving industry and make a positive, lasting impact on the organizations the company works with. They will be part of an outstanding international team driven by the desire to provide excellence to clients. APO Group’s rigorous selection process has been designed to attract the best candidates who will get the chance to collaborate with the management team in creating a strategic value proposition and work directly alongside our team of top minds in media relations. Applicants must possess the following required skills: The ideal expert will have minimum of 10 years’ experience in the field of public relations & communications 	either working for an agency or in a management position at a corporate level. 	Experience in managing multiple projects simultaneously 	A highly organized, positive “can-do” attitude – and a critical mind to identify gaps and/or opportunities 	Creativity, with a focus on innovation and the ability to see alternatives and solutions 	Ability to ask insightful questions that lead others to the heart of the problem or issue 	Brings energy and enthusiasm to interactions and situations; being naturally energetic and engaged with the ability to get the team energized 	An active listener; being engaged in others when they are speaking and accurately hearing and retaining the essence of their thoughts 	Excellent communication skills. Can offer an opinion with confidence and present ideas strongly and affirmatively, maintaining their position without becoming aggressive 	The courage of their convictions. Continuing on their course despite opposition or resistance; being insistent and tenacious 	Maturity beyond their years. Can behave as though they have the legitimate right to use authority; clearly stating a decision, conclusion or course of action 	A strong intuitive understanding of other people and what is important to them 	Persuasive skills in enlisting others’ support and assistance in influencing others; skill at building agreement and cooperation and a unified sense of purpose, particularly in approaching others and encouraging collaboration 	Fluency, both in written and spoken in English is required. French would be an asset To find out more about the job opening, please consult the following pages: https://twitter.com/APO_source/status/1027937383382216704 	For London: https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/793586944 	For Paris: https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/793585989  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of APO Group. Media contact: marie@apo-opa.org About APO Group Founded in 2007, APO Group is the leading media relations' consultancy and press release distribution service in Africa and the Middle East. We assist private and public organizations in sharpening their reputation and increasing their brand equity in target countries. As trusted partner, our role is to leverage the power of media and build bespoke strategies that enable organizations to produce a real and measurable impact in Africa and the Middle East and outside the regional frontiers. The trust and recognition that have been granted to APO Group by global and multinational companies, governments, as well as NGOs impels the company to continuously enhance its value proposition within Africa & Middle East to better cater to its clients’ needs. Amongst our prestigious clients: Facebook, Dangote Group, GE, Uber, Microsoft, Nokia, Mara Group, PwC, DHL, Marriott Group, Sage, Ecobank, Iflix, Jumia, Samsung, Total, Merck, Société Générale, L'Oréal, Oracle, Philips, Barclays, MoneyGram, Ernst & Young, Orange … APO Group is the main Official Partner of World Rugby’ African association, Rugby Africa. Headquarters: Lausanne, Switzerland | Offices in Senegal, Dubai and Hong Kong. Media filesDownload logo