As part of their shared mission to boost financial inclusion throughout Nigeria, Oradian (https://Oradian.com/) and the Association of Non Bank Microfinance Institution of Nigeria (ANMFIN) (www.ANMFINigeria.org/) have launched a strategic partnership.  Princess Adesola Ogunleye, the President of ANMFIN, commented on the partnership saying, “We are extremely pleased to partner with Oradian. Together we align our shared vision and leverage the success delivered to date. The partnership will enable all of our MFIs to move to Oradian’s cloud-based solution, helping our members to save time and money through more efficient, digitised processes – no more manual input of data. We and our members are very excited to improve administrative process, reduce high operational costs and offer digital financial services across the country.” Launching ANMFIN Cloud Express expands the range of solutions that Oradian offers in Nigeria. As stated by Antonio Separovic, CEO of Oradian, “Nigeria was Oradian's first market when we started Oradian six years ago and we remain committed to solving the financial inclusion challenge here. This partnership is a long-term partnership that is an important step towards this goal”. The partnership will enable ANMFIN to promote access to financial services for Nigerian clients on a larger scale by using ANMFIN Cloud Express, a core banking system specially built for ANMFIN and its microfinance institution (MFI) members.   ANMFIN Cloud Express, powered by Instafin, is a cloud-based toolset tailored to enable smaller Nigerian microfinance institutions (MFIs) to benefit from a cloud-based solution. According to Oradian’s Programme Director for Africa Onyeka Adibeli, “ANMFIN Cloud Express enhances MFIs’ ability to manage all operations including client relationships, transactions, portfolio management and reporting in the same way that large banks do – but at a fraction of the cost. We are removing the barriers that prevent MFIs from using the right technology to serve their clients and to strengthen their operations.” With a cost and a system tailored for the needs of smaller MFIs, Oradian’s partnership with ANMFIN enables more financial institutions to take advantage of technology to become more efficient, grow and reach more unbanked individuals in rural communities. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Oradian. Media Contact: Hello@Oradian.com Social media links Facebook: http://bit.ly/2JUC3ci Twitter: http://bit.ly/2y6OkFU LinkedIn: http://bit.ly/2JzPOOn YouTube: http://bit.ly/2JRDSqD About Oradian Oradian (https://Oradian.com/) is a financial inclusion company serving financial institutions in remote, hard-to-reach communities. Using insights from its community of customers,  Oradian builds a cloud-based toolset that smart financial institutions plug into to access best practice and efficiency Its global community is made up of over 65 financial institutions in eight countries with a concentration in the Philippines and Nigeria. Collectively, Oradian’s community of financial institutions provides access to financial services for over two million end-clients. About ANMFIN ANMFI Nigeria (www.ANMFINigeria.org/) is a Network of independent microfinance institutions in Nigeria that resulted from an Initiative led by The Central Bank of Nigeria in collaboration with The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) through the Ministry of Agriculture and other Development Partners to create and strengthen a country level microfinance network for the purpose of promoting rural finance, financial inclusion and poverty reduction in Nigeria. Media filesDownload logo