Download logo The National Assembly Approved four Bills at its sitting today– the Powers, Privileges and Immunities of Parliament and Provincial Legislatures Amendment Bill; the National Forests Amendment Bill; the Critical Infrastructure Protection Bill; the Money Bills Amendment Procedure and Related Matters Amendment Bill.  The Powers, Privileges and Immunities of Parliament and Provincial Legislatures Amendment Bill addresses the 18 March 2016 Constitutional Court judgment that declared section 11 of the principal Act to be invalid because it also applied to Members of Parliament. The amendment Act does this by providing that a “disturbance” does not include an act carried out by a Member of Parliament. The National Assembly established an ad hoc committee to review the principal Act following the Constitutional Court judgment and the amendments bring the Act in line with that judgment and also with developments related to parliamentary powers and privileges.  The National Forests Amendment Bill, which amends the National Forests Act of 1998, provides for clear definitions of forests and woodlands; for public ownership of these; to increase promotion and enforcement of sustainable forest management; and to control and remedy deforestation; to provide for appeals against decisions taken; and reinforces offences and penalties.  The Portfolio Committee on Police made a number of amendments to the Critical Infrastructure Protection Bill, which the National Assembly approved today. The Bill provides for the repeal of the National Key Points Act of 1980 and related laws. Among other things, the Bill provides for the identification and declaration of infrastructure as critical infrastructure; guidelines and factors to be taken into account to ensure transparent identification of critical infrastructure and measures to be put in place to protect such infrastructure.  The Money Bills Amendment Procedure and Related Matters Amendment Bill amends the 2009 Money Bills Amendment Procedure and Related Matters Act. The amendment Bill, which the National Assembly has approved, clarifies and amends the procedure, resultant reporting and periods involved in amending money Bills and division of revenue Bills and related fiscal instruments; and establishes the Parliamentary Budget Office as a juristic person.  The Bills approved will now be sent to the National Council of Provinces for consideration. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of South Africa: The Parliament.