Sheraton Lagos Hotel (www.Marriott.com/hotels/travel/lossi-sheraton-lagos-hotel) will host the living legend Femi Kuti (www.Facebook.com/femikutiofficial), live in concert, on 22nd September, 2018. Curated in partnership with media and entertainment company Chocolate City Group, the critically acclaimed singer, songwriter, instrumentalist, and four-time Grammy Award nominee, is set to enthrall music lovers, Afrobeat enthusiasts and members of Marriott International’s award-winning loyalty programs – Marriott Rewards, The Ritz-Carlton Rewards, and Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), with an exclusive live performance of his seventh studio album, One People One World.  Marriott International has been focused on stepping up its experiences game, creating exclusive Moments that help connect with members through their passions, be it culinary, music or sport. From Masterclasses with renowned chefs, mixologists, DJs and photographers to behind the scenes access to concerts, to experiences around your favorite sport or an immersive experience of the local cuisine or culture, there is a lot to explore and discover what makes travel more enriching.  “We are committed to creating unforgettable moments for our loyal members, and what better way to do that than to connect with them through their passions,” said Neal Jones Chief Sales and Marketing Officer, Middle East and Africa, Marriott International. “This is an opportunity for us to engage with our loyal members and build a strong emotional connection with them by creating a once-in-a lifetime experience while amplifying the benefits of our Loyalty Programs. Through this very special experience created by Sheraton Lagos Hotel, we want our members to carry back a memory that ties back to the destination and our brand.”  “Chocolate City is happy to collaborate with Marriot International and Sheraton Lagos to give its guests and Marriott International loyalty members an exclusive live music experience with its artist and Afrobeat legend Femi Kuti. His music and brand embody Africa’s rich culture and we have tried to replicate that in the set up, management and curation of the event. We expect guests to remember the event for the energy and excitement that Femi’s music brings” said Edward Israel-Ayide, Senior Marketing Manager Chocolate City Group.  Members can redeem their points for an experience package on the Moments platform which includes the following  Front row seats and access to special viewing area at the Femi Kuti concert at Sheraton Lagos Complimentary cocktails and hors d’oeuvres during the concert VIP backstage passes Exclusive breakfast with Femi Kuti at the Club Lounge at Sheraton Lagos Hotel on 23rd September, 2018 with a photo opportunity with Femi Kuti. A one-night stay in the Sheraton Club Room for two people at the iconic Sheraton Lagos Airport transfers A goody bag and a bounce-back F&B voucher  To secure your experience, please visit : www.Moments.Marriottrewards.com/item/vip-concert-breakfast-and.  “As a city landmark hotel and a hotspot for the local community as well as the international traveler to Nigeria, we are excited to bring this concert to the hotel and create transformative moments for our guests and loyalty program members, through the reverberating rhythm of Afrobeat” said Barry Curran General Manager Sheraton Lagos Hotel.  In addition to Femi Kuti there will be performances from five other popular artists. Invited guests and loyalty members will be treated to an eclectic selection of expertly crafted cocktails and finger favorites.  To find out more about the hotel log on to www.SheratonLagos.com  or follow on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram.  More details about the event are available on the Chocolate City Group website (https://ChocolateCityGroup.com/femi-kuti) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Marriott International, Inc.. Media Contact Anjali Mehra Anjali.Mehra@Marriott.com +971565396555 Nanji Tyem Nanji.Tyem@Sheraton.com Edward Israel-Ayide  Edward@ChocolateCityGroup.com About Sheraton Hotels & Resorts Sheraton Hotels & Resorts (www.Marriott.com/hotels/travel/lossi-sheraton-lagos-hotel), part of Marriott International, Inc., makes it easy for guests to explore, relax and enjoy the possibilities of travel at nearly 450 hotels in over 70 countries and territories around the world. Sheraton continues to enhance the brand through innovative guest experience, differentiating design, multi-channel marketing and a sharp focus on service. Sheraton is proud to participate in the industry’s award-winning loyalty program, Starwood Preferred Guest®. Members can now link accounts with Marriott Rewards®, which includes The Ritz-Carlton Rewards® at Members.Marriott.com for instant elite status matching and unlimited points transfer. To learn more, visit www.Sheraton.com. Stay connected to Sheraton on Facebook (www.Facebook.com/Sheraton), and @sheratonhotels on Twitter (https://Twitter.com/sheratonhotels) and Instagram (www.Instagram.com/sheratonhotels/?hl=en) About Marriott International, Inc. Marriott International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAR) (www.Marriott.com)  is based in Bethesda, Maryland, USA, and encompasses a portfolio of more than 6,500 properties in 30 leading hotel brands spanning 127 countries and territories. Marriott operates and franchises hotels and licenses vacation ownership resorts all around the world. The company also operates award-winning loyalty programs: Marriott Rewards®, which includes The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®, and Starwood Preferred Guest®. For more information, please visit our website at www.Marriott.com, and for the latest company news, visit www.MarriottNewsCenter.com. In addition, connect with us on Facebook (www.facebook.com/MarriottInternational) and @MarriottIntl on Twitter (https://Twitter.com/MarriottIntl) and Instagram (https://www.Instagram.com/MarriottIntl). About Chocolate City Group Chocolate City Group (www.ChocolateCityGroup.com) is a 360-degree media and entertainment company consisting of a record label, food and beverage business, event planning company, management consulting firm, and a marketing agency based in Nigeria. It has offices in Lagos, Abuja and Nairobi with agency operations in the United Kingdom, United States, South-Africa and Ghana. CCG is an industry leader in the entertainment business and pioneered the formalized approach to developing, managing, distributing and monetizing media and entertainment and related content in Nigeria. Since its inception, it has been a trailblazer in terms of experience, innovation and operations on the Nigerian entertainment scene. For more information, visit our website at www.ChocolateCityGroup.com or follow us on Facebook (www.Facebook.com/chocolatecitylimited), Twitter (https://Twitter.com/choccityGroup) and Instagram  (www.Instagram.com/choccitygroup)  Media filesDownload logo