Download logo As part of Canada’s commitment to strengthen ties with Africa and to work with the continent to help address the challenges it faces, the Honourable Marie-Claude Bibeau, Minister of International Development, will travel to Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire from August 13 to 19, 2018.  During her visit, Minister Bibeau will meet with government officials, woman leaders and development partners to discuss common priorities such as advancing the rights of women and girls, including sexual and reproductive health rights, sustainable and inclusive development, and peace and security. Minister Bibeau will also visit development projects supported by Canada in both countries and meet with partner organizations working in the health, education and agriculture sectors to gain a deeper understanding of development challenges and opportunities there. In Côte d’Ivoire, Minister Bibeau will meet with Akinwumi A. Adesina, President of the African Development Bank, to discuss Canada’s ongoing engagement with the bank. Quotes “As part of its re-engagement with Africa, Canada is committed to increasing its collaboration with Côte d’Ivoire and Sierra Leone. This will be my sixth mission to Africa but my first visit to these two countries, and I look forward to exploring how we can best work together to ensure the most vulnerable, especially women and girls, have equal opportunities to reach their full potential.” – Marie-Claude Bibeau, Minister of International Development Quick facts   	In fiscal year (FY) 2016-2017, Canada provided $8.58 million in development assistance to Sierra Leone, focused on humanitarian assistance and health, including reproductive health. 	Canada has a long history of supporting peacebuilding in Sierra Leone, including its chairmanship of the Sierra Leone Configuration of the Peacebuilding Commission over the past 10 years.  	In FY 2016-2017, Canada provided $19.97 million in development assistance to Côte d’Ivoire, with a focus on health (including reproductive health), education, inclusive economic growth and empowerment of women and girls. 	In 2018, Canada and Côte d’Ivoire are co-chairing the G7 Friends of the Gulf of Guinea Group on Maritime Security. 	Canada is the fourth-largest non-African shareholder in the African Development Bank. Canada is also the seventh-largest contributor to the African Development Fund, with a contribution of $325.6 million over three years in support of the poorest countries in Africa.   Associated links   	Canada – Sierra Leone Relations 	Canada – Côte d’Ivoire Relations  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Department of Foreign Affairs Canada.