Download logo Closing remarks by Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation of the Republic of South Africa on the occasion of the working visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria h.e. Mr Abdelkader Messahel, 29 August 2018:  Minister Messahel; Members of our delegations; Members of the media  Your visit has allowed us to reaffirm the historic and strategic partnership between our two countries.  We just concluded our bilateral discussions which were characterised by extraordinary friendship and solidarity. During our discussions we were able to review our bilateral cooperation. We have thus noted with satisfaction the depth and extent of our cooperation as demonstrated by the existence of thirty-three bilateral agreements and memoranda of understanding which cover a wide range of fields such as trade and industry, diplomacy, defence, energy, arts and culture, sports, science and technology, agriculture, education and health.  While we note the thirty-three bilateral agreements and memoranda of understanding, we have nonetheless emphasised the need that these agreements are fully implemented for the mutual benefit of our peoples.  In our discussions, we have also emphasised the need to pay particular focus on economic cooperation, encouraging further trade and investment and strategic cooperation between our State Owned Companies.  We also acknowledged the strategic significance of the Bi-National Commission (BNC), a mechanism that allows us to meet at the highest level on a regular basis.  We exchanged views on the political, security and development on the Continent. In this regard, we noted with concern the continued instability in some of our sister countries and regions. We have thus agreed to continue working together to advance peace, security, stability, unity and economic development of the Continent.  On Western Sahara we have reaffirmed our position which is the attainment of the right for self-determination and decolonisation of the Saharawi people, and the rapid resolution of the conflict within the framework of international legality. We thus welcome the efforts of the African Union (AU) Special Envoy for Western Sahara, H.E. former President Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique and the United Nations (UN) Secretary General Personal Envoy for Western Sahara H.E. Horst Kohler, aimed at mobilising the international community to implement all the AU and UN Resolutions on Western Sahara.  We reiterated our common position to continue promoting multilateralism and South-South cooperation.  Lastly, we have agreed to continue our consultations with regard to the holding of the 7th Session of the BNC.  I thank you for your attention. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of South Africa: The Parliament.