On Saturday August 11, the Kenya Simbas played against the Tunisian side during the 2018 Rugby Africa Gold Cup, a qualifier for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan.  Download the B-roll and the photos: https://we.tl/KasFewR7e1 Kenya won 67-0 as they ran in 11 tries and six conversions against a North African side that did not manage to score any point. Test debutant and Kenya Sevens forward Willy Ambaka was joined by Captain Davies Chenge, Andrew Chogo, Jacob Ojee, Elkeans Musonye, Darwin Mukidza, Martin Owilah, Peter Karia, Mohammed Omolo and Tony Onyango in the scoresheet. Kenya picks five points from the win to move to 17 points and stay second in the Africa Gold Cup, three behind leaders Namibia. Ambaka got things going for Kenya with Darwin Mukidza completing the conversion before he did so to Davies Chenge's try as the captain mauled over the Tunisian defence. Lock Andrew Chogo would also go over to take Kenya's score to 21-0. Winger Jacob Ojee intercepted Tunisia's poor pass making a half-pitch run  to score Kenya's fourth. With little threat coming from the Tunisian side, they were punished after failing to keep their ball in their own 22 as flanker Elkeans Musonye went over. Mukidza would also get on score sheet but missed his conversion before being withdrawn by Coach Ian Snook with Max Kang'eri coming in for him at inside centre. Back to back tries from man of the match Martin Owilah amd Peter Karia took the score to 50-0 as Homeboyz duo of Tony Onyango and Mohamed Omollo extended the lead to 62-0. Ambaka would then close the scoring with his second and Kenya's 11th try. Speaking after the win, Kenya Simbas head coach Ian Snook said: “There were still a few disappointing things but we will see and fix that next week.  Ambaka had a really good game. Managing to score twice as you saw it was a good afternoon. He is getting better and better and he is obviously talented.” “We would love to qualify directly to Japan and that's the goal, to beat Namibia. There is however a second chance of repechage but there is a big week ahead of us.” Tunisia Coach Jaco Stouman on his side picked positives from his side despite losing 0-67 to Kenya. “Yes definitely guys showed some guts in the second half, it was really good. Kenya is a good side. For us we need to take this experience, go work on our problems and come back next year. We have to work hard from Monday and be ready for Morocco and we are not getting relegated” Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard, Founder and CEO of APO Group (www.APO-opa.com), the main Official Partner of Rugby Africa, said: “The number of fans following the competition is growing each week and will reach its climax on August 18th. Africa is definitely among the fastest-growing rugby fan-bases”. Tunisia's next and last game will be against Morocco at home on August 11 as Kenya heads to Namibia in what will be the Africa Gold Cup decider. The 2018 Africa Gold Cup is doubling up as qualifier for 2019 Rugby World Cup to be held in Japan with the competition's winner getting the sole ticket as Africa 1. Runners-up, Africa 2, will head to global repechage in France during the November test window for the last chance to qualify for the World Cup. They will play Canada, Germany and Hong Kong. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Rugby Africa. Media contact: rugby@apo-opa.org Media filesDownload logo