Download logo Rwanda Rugby (www.RwandaRugby.com), The Rwandan Rugby Federation is delighted to welcome youth teams from Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi and Kenya to Kigali this weekend.  NGOs “Connect to Africa” and “Friends of Rwandan Rugby” have coordinated efforts to host a third annual tournament of youth rugby designed to foster international competition.  It is expected that both the 15 year old and 18 year old age groups will involve fierce competitions. The games will be held at the Red Cross Field in Kigali commencing Saturday 25th Aug at 10am and run for two days.  Secretary General of the Federation of Rwandan Rugby, Kamanda Tharcisse has stated “This is a very exciting time for Rwandan rugby. We have been growing the rate of participation in our schools for more than a decade. It will be wonderful to again gauge our progress against other teams from the region. It will be great to see our players make friendship with rugby players from other countries and recognize that there is major participation happening on other parts of the continent”.  Rugby in Rwanda has seen a steady increase in participation at the schools level for some time and it was noted by the Chief Administrator, John Livingstone Muhire that this tournament will be very special because of the high level of involvement by female players. He stated “World Rugby has set out very clear targets for the increase in female participation. It is hoped that this tournament will show females in Rwanda of the standards in other parts of Africa and encourage more females to get involved. All of the clubs in Rwanda understand that females can play rugby and that with continued support there can be an increase in the numbers of female players and frequency of female games”.  Uganda Under 15 Boys Under 15 Girls Under 18 Boys Under 18 Girls  Tanzania Under 15 Boys Under 18 Girls Under 18 Boys  Malawi Under 18 Boys  Kenya Under 15 Boys Under 18 Girls  Rwanda Under 15 Boys Under 15 Girls Under 18 Boys Under 18 Girl  Details of the event can be tracked through the Connect to Africa facebook page. www.Facebook.com/connecttoafricateam Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Rwanda Rugby Federation (RRF). Any further inquires can be directed to: CA@RwandaRugby.com  About Rwanda Rugby The Rwanda Rugby Federation (RRF) (www.RwandaRugby.com) is responsible for all aspects of rugby in Rwanda from school level to the international Silverbacks. Our aim is to encourage the development of rugby in Rwanda and increase participation at all ages and both genders.  Website: www.RwandaRugby.com   Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RwandaRugby 