Download logo South Africa’s High Commissioner to Mozambique, Ambassador Mandisi Mpahlwa says that South Africa’s unwavering and consistent participation at the Feira International de Maputo (FACIM) Trade Fair is testament to how confident his country is on the potential for growth in Mozambique. Mpahlwa said this during the official opening of the South Africa’s Pavilion at the trade fair.  FACIM is Mozambique’s biggest annual fair which caters for a variety of products and services attracting the attention of companies from Africa, Asia and Europe.  The Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) is hosting twenty-three companies that received assistance through the Export Marketing and Investment Assistance Scheme, to showcase locally-made products and services at FACIM. The companies’ trade speciality range from energy, vehicle air-conditioning, textiles, agro-processing, furniture, construction equipment, steel, portable water systems and hair products.  Speaking at the launch, Mpahlwa identified Mozambique’s unfolding major economic development as one to look forward to regarding future opportunities.  “Mozambique’s economy is about to experience a rebuilding phase following devastating consequences previously and I am encouraged by the range of sectors and products represented in this year’s pavilion because they fall directly in line with what will soon be required in the country. It is also important to acknowledge the important role that is being played by the dti in bringing along our local companies to participate effectively at FACIM,” said Mpahlwa.  Mpahlwa further praised the warm relations between South Africa and Mozambique and its institutions and government departments for supporting South Africa’s objectives to participate at FACIM.  The Director-General of Mozambique Customs, Dr Lourenco Sambo outlined his agency’s core business as being responsible for the promotion of Mozambique to investors and to offer advice to business people in terms of the rules and regulations of doing business in the country.  “The participation of twenty-three South Africa companies at FACIM is warmly received and we will strive to be of assistance in any way that we can and ensure that they are in line with the rules of doing business, which will ultimately simplify the way of trading. I would like to also extend an invitation to even more South African companies to come explore the opportunities in Mozambique and urge those that are trading here to feel at home,” he said. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Department of Trade and Industry, South Africa.