Today (March 21 2018), the United States is taking action against fifteen South Sudanese oil-related entities whose revenues have contributed to the ongoing crisis in South Sudan. This action reflects the U.S. commitment to doing all it can to protect the innocent people of South Sudan.  By placing these entities on the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Entity List, the United States will impose a license requirement on all exports, re-exports, and transfers of any U.S.-origin items to those entities.  The names of these specific entities will be published in the Federal Register on March 22. Technical questions regarding the details of today’s action should be addressed to the Department of Commerce. The listed entities are a source of substantial revenue for the Government of South Sudan.  Unfortunately, the South Sudanese Government, and corrupt official actors, use this revenue to purchase weapons and fund irregular militias that undermine the peace, security, and stability of South Sudan rather than support the welfare and current emergency food needs of the South Sudanese people.  We call on the region and broader international community to join us in limiting the financial flows that fuel the continuing violence in the country. The Government of South Sudan can do better.  The United States expects it, as well as the armed opposition, to fulfill their commitments to the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and to their own people to cease hostilities, allow unimpeded humanitarian access, and pursue a negotiated peace in good faith.  As the largest donor of aid to South Sudan, the United States is proud to uphold humanitarian values and deliver vital assistance.  The Government of South Sudan must not squander that generosity and should take concrete steps to provide for the vast needs of the South Sudanese people. Today’s actions are part of our ongoing effort to hold to account those who foment violence, commit human rights violations, obstruct the peace process, or engage in illicit financial activities against the interest of the South Sudanese people. We remain prepared to take additional actions, including sanctioning those who threaten the peace and security of South Sudan.  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Regional Media Hub.