GROHE (www.GROHE.com),  the world's leading manufacturer of sanitary fittings, first unveiled an immersive ATRIO installation for guests at the newly renovated GROHE Milan showroom (Via Crocefisso 19) in April during the Fuorisalone. The monumental black experience cube allows visitors to immerse themselves into a multimedia experience depicting an abstract story of the new ATRIO collection – a story of the two distinct characteristics of ATRIO: elegance and precision. By standing in the middle of the cube, the spectators experience ATRIO with all their senses. The video sequences in combination with the music and a special water installation allow the guests to dive into the two defining attributes of the latest GROHE design highlight. “With the launch, GROHE welcomes a new era of design where we go beyond our well-known paths and create something truly meaningful – an icon. So ATRIO is a design more about what we didn’t do vs. what we did”, Michael Seum, GROHE’s Vice President Design, explains.  Timeless Elegance The new ATRIO is a design where the typical temptations of strong luxury design elements were resisted. Its true elegance is formed by reduction and simplification, crafted solely from a singular geometry: a perfect circle which stands for efficiency, femininity and perfection. The cylindrical ring is further a highly symbolic form: a promise. The restraint of the design of the ATRIO collection ensures bringing, to any environment, a timeless elegance.   The Ideal of Precision In ATRIO, water precisely follows form. This engineering perfection made in Germany demanded a sense of craft balanced by technical expertise: “ATRIO‘s design restraint required technical experts to achieve new levels of engineering perfection. For this, design and engineering have to come together in precise harmony”, says Michael Seum. Furthermore, design permanence requires obsessive attention to detail and craft. Due to that, ATRIO is more than a faucet collection – it is the creative ideal of GROHE brought to life by German craftsmanship.  The GROHE showroom is open to the public from the 17th until the 22nd of April between 10 am and 8 pm, except for Wednesday, the 18th of April, when the opening hours are 11 am to 2 pm.  For more information, please visit www.GROHE.com Distributed by APO Group on behalf of GROHE. Media Contact
Chief Communications Officer
Thorsten Sperlich
E-Mail: Media@GROHE.com Press Office
Edelman.ergo GmbH
Medienpark Kampnagel, Barmbeker Str. 4, 22303 Hamburg, Germany
Phone: +49 (0)40 356 206 045| Fax: +49 (0)40 372880
M: GROHE@Edelmanergo.com  | W: www.Edelmanergo.com About GROHE
GROHE (www.GROHE.com) is the world’s leading provider of sanitary fittings and has a total of over 6,000 employees, 2,400 of which are based in Germany. GROHE has been part of the LIXIL Group Corporation since 2014. As an international brand, GROHE pursues the brand values of technology, quality, design and sustainability, seeking to offer the “Pure joy of water”. GROHE has been developing new product categories since its inception. This includes the GROHE Blue and Red water systems and the recently-introduced GROHE Sense water security system, which is an innovative component in the growth market of smart home technology. Innovation, design and development are closely aligned with one another and are enshrined in the German site as an integrated process. As a result, GROHE products carry the seal of quality “Made in Germany”. In the past ten years alone, more than 300 design and innovation awards as well as several top rankings at the German Sustainability Award have confirmed GROHE's success. GROHE was the first in its industry to win the German government’s CSR prize and was also featured in the renowned Fortune® magazine’s ranking of Top 50 that are “Changing the World”. About LIXIL 
LIXIL (www.LIXIL.com) makes pioneering water and housing products that solve every day, real-life challenges, making better homes a reality for everyone, everywhere. Drawing on our Japanese heritage, we create world-leading technology and innovate to make high quality products that transform homes. But the LIXIL difference is how we do this; through meaningful design, an entrepreneurial spirit, a dedication to improving accessibility for all and responsible business growth. Our approach comes to life through industry leading brands, including INAX, GROHE, American Standard and TOSTEM. Over 70,000 colleagues operating in more than 
150 countries are proud to make products that touch the lives of more than a billion people every day. Learn more at www.LIXIL.com
 
GROHE
Feldmühleplatz 15 • 40545 Düsseldorf • Germany • Phone: +49(0)211/9130-3030 • www.GROHE.com