Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. News Highlights:  HP (www.HP.com) pledges to empower 100,000 learners across Africa in next three years through the HP Foundation’s HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs) program HP opens a tech-enabled HP LIFE Center (www.LIFE-Global.org/) in South Africa, aimed at supporting local entrepreneurs Commitment supports HP’s goals to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, and to enroll a million HP LIFE users between 2016 and 2025  Today at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100, HP (NYSE: HPQ) announced a new commitment to reach 100,000 learners across Africa over the next three years through the HP Foundation’s HP LIFE (https://bit.ly/2QuAzsD) program, and kicked off the commitment by opening a new tech-enabled HP LIFE Center in South Africa.   HP’s pledge supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 (https://bit.ly/2HUe9gd) and furthers the company’s goals to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025 and to enroll a million HP LIFE users between 2016 and 2025, as outlined in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report (https://bit.ly/2KOnogZ).  By 2030, Africa will be home to 32% of the population under the age of 30, and the largest working age population by 2035. Yet, today’s youth unemployment in Africa is up to 3x higher than adult unemployment. HP LIFE offers free, online learning for users to gain the skills to start and grow their own business or improve their employment opportunities. Building on the success of this global program, HP is working with partners to open technology-enabled HP LIFE innovation centers to further support entrepreneurship and workforce development across the continent.  “We believe that education is a human right, that technology in the classroom is a critical component for a 21st century education, and that in today’s economy our learning is never done,” said Nate Hurst, Chief Sustainability and Social Impact Officer, HP. “Africa is experiencing rapid urbanization and digitization—and it’s essential that people have access to learn skills for the work of tomorrow. This new HP LIFE Center provides a launchpad for innovation and opportunity across the continent.”  In 2017, on the global stage at the Global Citizen Festival in Hamburg, Germany, HP announced a commitment to enabling better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025 (https://bit.ly/2Ufbp0m). The commitment to education is a part of HP’s broader Sustainable Impact strategy – a strategy to use the scope, scale and expertise of HP to drive positive, lasting change for the planet, its people and the communities where we live, work and do business.  “Sustainable Impact is fundamental to our reinvention and core to achieving our vision – to create technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere,” said Hurst.  HP LIFE In collaboration with institutions such as the Ekurhuleni West TVET College in Katlehong and its Centre of Entrepreneurship Rapid Incubator, HP opened the HP LIFE Center in South Africa on November 30, a technology-enabled hub to facilitate learning, collaboration and entrepreneurship in a physical, face-to-face setting. Built on the belief that entrepreneurs are the backbone of the global economy, HP LIFE offers 30 free, online courses focused on business and IT skills – from business planning and marketing, to raising capital and design thinking. To date, HP LIFE has reached 744,000 learners in 200 countries and territories. All users need is a computer and Internet connection to access HP LIFE, and the new, physical center in South Africa will create a more formal educational environment. HP LIFE has an enrollment goal of 1 million users between 2016 and 2025. At the World Economic Forum’s 48th Annual Meeting in January, Youth for Technology Foundation (YTF) and HP Foundation announced a new 3D printing course to be delivered through the HP LIFE platform. 3D printing will fundamentally change the manufacturing industry. $4 to 6 trillion (USD) of the global economy will be disrupted in the next five to 10 years, shifting economic value and jobs across the globe. This new course is helping individuals to learn how to use 3D printing and create entrepreneurial opportunities. HP and Global Citizen in South Africa HP has been a proud partner of the Global Citizen movement since 2013, including supporting the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 (https://glblctzn.me/2SqV8nf), a first for South Africa. Ahead of the December 2 festival in Johannesburg, HP ran several awareness and engagement building activities to highlight the partnership and HP’s commitment to Sustainable Impact, and to engage customers, employees and the public in acting on pressing global issues. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of HP. Media Contact: Tom Suiter Email: Tom.Suiter@hp.com Phone: (415) 730-6521 Website: www.hp.com/go/newsroom HP Inc. 1501 Page Mill Palo Alto, CA 94304 hp.com Additional Resources: HP Press Center: Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/festival/south-africa/ (https://glblctzn.me/2SqV8nf) HF LIFE: https://www.life-global.org/ (https://bit.ly/2QuAzsD) HP Sustainable Impact: https://www8.hp.com/us/en/hp-information/environment/footprint.html (https://bit.ly/2BNkQwM) Raising awareness of local advocates and changemakers with News24: https://bethegeneration.news24.com/be-the-generation/ (https://bit.ly/2SkI2b8)  About the HP Foundation The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization that funds philanthropic programs for underserved communities where we live and work by supporting technology-related learning, charitable giving, volunteering, and disaster relief. Along with HP employees, the HP Foundation creates programs that make life better for underserved and underrepresented communities by providing technology-related learning experiences and opportunities. About HP HP Inc. (HP.com) creates technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. Through our portfolio of printers, PCs, mobile devices, solutions, and services, we engineer experiences that amaze. More information about HP Inc. is available at http://www.HP.com Media filesDownload logo