UAE Exchange, a leading global money transfer, foreign exchange and payment solutions brand, announced the rebranding of its Uganda operations as “Unimoni”(www.Unimoni.com). The announcement was made by Promoth Manghat, Executive Director of Finablr and Group CEO, at an event held at Pearl of Africa Hotel in Kampala, in the presence of Vice President of Uganda Hon. Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi, and other dignitaries, partners and guests.  Short for ‘Universal Money’, the new brand “Unimoni” reflects the company’s aspirations to strengthen its global presence and provide a broader spectrum of innovative financial services to its customers. As part of its Africa growth strategy, Unimoni plans to be present in 14 African markets by the year 2020, and has developed a healthy pipeline of digital payment solutions designed to cater to the specific needs of the African customers.  Promoth Manghat, Executive Director of Finablr, said: “Home to some of the fastest growing economies globally, Africa holds tremendous potential and is a critical component of our growth strategy as a group. We will continue to invest in enhancing the breadth of our reach and depth of our operations in the African continent. As a group, we have earmarked USD 100 million in investments to support our growth and expansion efforts in Africa over the next decade. As Unimoni, we will facilitate seamless and connected experiences for our customers and pave the way towards sustainable development and inclusive growth of the various African markets.”  Through its category-leading brands such as Unimoni, UAE Exchange, Travelex and Xpress Money, the Finablr network extends across 45 African markets. With 29 branches in Africa offering affordable money transfer and foreign exchange services, Unimoni plans to significantly increase its retail footprint over the coming years. Additionally, the brand is also making aggressive investments in customer-focused technology innovations as well as collaborating with ecosystem partners to provide an enhanced service proposition to its customer base.  Speaking about the future expansion plans for its Africa operations, Allen Semboze, Regional Head Africa, Unimoni, said: “The next few years are going to be very eventful for us at Unimoni, as we set out to achieve our ambitious growth strategy. We are in advanced discussions with various ecosystem partners including Mobile Network Operators and aggregators to develop new money transfer solutions. These services will be available in four of our seven markets in Africa by the second half of 2018. We are also working on developing our digital capabilities including an online remittance platform, a white-label solution for our corporate customers and an online forex solution. While we are adopting a phased approach towards our growth in Africa, all these offerings will be live by 2020 across all our African markets.”  The rebranding exercise follows an earlier announcement made by noted UAE-based businessman and philanthropist, Dr. Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty, Founder and Chairman of the UAE Exchange Group. In April 2018, Dr. Shetty launched “Finablr”, a holding company which, subject to regulatory approvals, aims to bring together his global portfolio of category-leading financial services brands including Unimoni, UAE Exchange, Travelex and Xpress Money under one umbrella. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Unimoni. For media queries, contact Press.Office@Unimoni.com About Finablr Finablr (www.Finablr.com) is a holding company which brings together category-leading global financial services brands under one network. With technology innovation at its core, Finablr seeks to drive the agenda of financial enablement and empowerment through R&D efforts, industry ecosystem engagements, investments and potential acquisitions. With over four decades of industry experience and 18,000+ employees, the Finablr network brands have a direct presence in 45 countries and a network reach across 165 countries. Collectively, the Finablr network touches over a billion lives through its retail stores, agents and digital channels. For more information, visit the Finablr website: www.Finablr.com. About Unimoni Unimoni (formerly UAE Exchange in Africa) (www.Unimoni.com) is a global provider of money transfer, foreign exchange and payment solutions. The brand facilitates the seamless movement of money across geographies, currencies and channels with a focus on delivering convenience, speed and value to its customers. With multiple touchpoints spanning retail stores, digital channels and self-service kiosks, Unimoni offers secure and simplified financial solutions for its customers. For more information, visit the Unimoni website: www.Unimoni.com. Media filesDownload logo Multimedia content Image: (L-R): Allen Semboze (Regional Head of Unimoni Africa), Hon. Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi (Vice President of Uganda), Promoth Manghat (Executive Director of Finablr & Group CEO) and Nazeem Khan (Country Head of Unimoni Uganda)Image: (L-R): Allen Semboze (Regional Head of Unimoni Africa), Hon. Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi (Vice President of Uganda) and Promoth Manghat (Executive Director of Finablr & Group CEO)