Global trade enabler DP World (http://web.DPWorld.com) has signed a 20-year concession with an automatic 20-year extension with the Republic of Mali to build and operate a 1000-hectare modern logistics hub outside of Bamako, the capital and largest city of Mali. The multimodal logistics platform, Mali Logistics Hub (MLH), will have inland container depots (ICD) and Container Freight Stations (CFS) that will facilitate the import and export of goods.  Download audio sound bites for radios featuring comments from DP World Middle East and Africa CEO and Managing Director, Suhail Al Banna (in English) and Republic of Mali Minister of Equipment and transport Moulaye Ahmed Boubacar (in French), DP World West Africa Manager, Alassane Diop (in French): http://www.APO-Mail.org/180724 The Mali Logistics Hub will be located on the main road corridor from Dakar, Senegal to Bamako and close to the Dakar – Bamako rail line and will be capable of handling 300,000 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent unit), 4 million tons of bulk and general cargo. The first phase of the project, with an estimated initial investment of $50 million, will support the growth of the Malian economy by streamlining the import and export of goods. Construction is expected to start in 2019 and is to take approximately 18 months to complete.  DP World will also provide the Republic of Mali with three locomotive trains to boost cargo & passenger traffic along the Bamako-Dakar rail system. Furthermore, the Mali logistics hub will significantly reduce processing times for products entering the Malian market as part of efforts to reduce obstacles to trade and economic development. DP World will also implement its online paperless facilitation platform to accelerate the movement of goods as part of the agreement.  The concession agreement was signed in Dubai on Monday by Suhail Al Banna, Chief executive Officer and Managing Director, DP World Middle East and Africa and Moulaye Ahmed Boubacar, Minister of Equipment and Transport, the Republic of Mali, in the attendance of Malian and DP World officials.  DP World Chairman and CEO Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem, said: “The Malian market is expected to grow over the next two decades and is driven by a robust economic and population growth. Thus, the Mali Logistics Hub is much needed and will provide the country with a logistics platform that aims to facilitate the import and export of goods via the Port of Dakar, which is operated by DP World.  “DP World’s investment will significantly cut processing times for goods and thus facilitate trade. We are committed to enabling trade in the region and helping local businesses and people prosper, and look forward to working together.”  Republic of Mali Minister of Equipment and Transport Moulaye Ahmed Boubacar said: “We are excited to partner with DP World on this project. The Mali Logistics Hub will dramatically improve the cost and time of trade for Mali. The project will provide us with a first-class logistics facility comparable to global standards and will be the largest in terms of capacity”.  “We are confident that with DP World as a partner we will be able to meet the expectations of our people, traders and exporters to have access to more markets and to bring more efficiency and cost effectiveness to international trade. The project also gives the Republic of Mali the opportunity to be connected to global trade lanes, and to speed up access and transport in and out of the country.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of DP World. For DP World media enquiries please contact:  Sana Maadad Corporate Communications Manager DP World  Tel: +971 505522610 Sana.Maadad@DPWorld.com Awad Mustafa Corporate Communications Manager Middle East & Africa DP World  Tel: +971 564185485 Awad.Mustafa@DPWorld.com Follow DP World on: Twitter: https://Twitter.com/DP_World LinkedIn: www.Linkedin.com/company/dp-world About DP World: DP World (http://web.DPWorld.com) is a leading enabler of global trade and an integral part of the supply chain. We operate multiple yet related businesses – from marine and inland terminals, maritime services, logistics and ancillary services to technology-driven trade solutions. We have a portfolio of 78 operating marine and inland terminals supported by over 50 related businesses in over 40 countries across six continents with a significant presence in both high-growth and mature markets. We aim to be essential to the bright future of global trade, ensuring everything we do has a long-lasting positive impact on economies and society. Our dedicated team of over 36,000 employees from 103 countries cultivates long-standing relationships with governments, shipping lines, importers and exporters, communities, and many other important constituents of the global supply chain, to add value and provide quality services today and tomorrow. Container handling is the company’s core business and generates more than three quarters of its revenue. In 2017, DP World handled 70.1 million TEU (twenty-foot equivalent units) across our portfolio. With its committed pipeline of developments and expansions, the current gross capacity of 88.2 million TEU is expected to rise to more than 100 million TEU by 2020, in line with market demand. By thinking ahead, foreseeing change and innovating we aim to create the most productive, efficient and safe trade solutions globally. Media filesDownload logo Multimedia content Image: Suhail Al Banna, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, DP World Middle East and Africa, and Moulaye Ahmed Boubacar, Minister of Equipment and Transport, the Republic of Mali, during the signing of the concession agreement in Dubai