Nine Energy and Petroleum Ministers have confirmed to attend Africa Oil Week (www.Africa-OilWeek.com) 2018 which will take place in Cape Town, South Africa on the 5-9 November 2018. With 88 upcoming oil and gas fields to receive more than US$180Bn by 2025, having such strong government representation of nine Ministers attending to deliver bidding rounds and investment opportunities reinforces the unique value of Africa Oil Week as the annual transaction platform for Africa.  Over the course of the week, leading nations will take meetings and present proprietary information regarding up-and-coming projects exclusively at Africa Oil Week. From shallow water licencing in Congo Brazzaville, to billion-dollar tenders in critical infrastructure, there is a growing anticipation from the global petroleum companies that Africa Oil Week 2018 is the most compelling opportunity to originate and win licences, farm down partnerships and finance within the African Oil and Gas sector.  With over 26 per cent of the investment being given to Nigeria, it is noteworthy that Hon Minister Dr Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources from the Federal Republic of Nigeria is attending Africa Oil Week to showcase and promote the most significant transformation projects in Nigeria.  “Attracting inward investment for upstream activities and field development is critical if Africa is to realise its full energy potential.” Added Paul Sinclair, Conference Director for Africa Oil Week. It is in this context that Africa Oil Week will deliver a transactional based event that will see multi-billion-dollar deals agreed to which will advance national objectives across the continent.  The following African Ministers will be present to advance the African Hydrocarbon sector, broker new partnerships and to raise capital for priority opportunities from Cape Town to Cairo:  “We are truly honoured by the attendance of so many Government Ministers. In my view, this demonstrates that Africa Oil Week is the premier meeting point for the African Oil and Gas sector. It not only gathers the most senior community of Ministers and National Oil Companies, it remains the only true world class deal making event for the global private sector. The importance that global partnerships are now playing in developing Africa’s energy resources only underlines the need for Africa Oil Week. With 54 highly competitive countries looking to develop their vast resources we are delighted to be hosting 17 National Oil Companies who will also be undertaking their role to promote their petroleum sector within roadshows and bidding rounds. The role of Africa Oil Week as a catalyst for deal making sets itself apart from talkshops, we are expecting unprecedented levels of investment and finance to be deployed into the African upstream as a result of the 2018 Africa Oil Week.” said Paul Sinclair, Conference Director, Africa Oil Week.  The event provides a platform for African nations and those operators to present deals, farm in opportunities, data rooms and basin insights in some of the most compelling basins across the continent. Attendees value the opportunity to get face time with Ministers, CEOs, Banks and operators at what is still regarded as the must attend event for the Africa hydrocarbon sector. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Oil Week. For more information about Africa Oil Week 2018, please contact:
Paul Sinclair
Conference Director
Africa Oil Week
Paul.Sinclair@ITE-Exhibitions.com Media Contacts
Stephen Ballard
BCM Public Relations Ltd
E-mail: S.Ballard@BCMPublicRelations.com 
Tel.: + 44 (0) 203 4095090 About ITE Group:
ITE Group plc (www.ITE-Exhibitions.com) was founded in 1991 and is now one of the world’s leading organisers of international exhibitions and conferences. ITE Group’s strategic vision is to create the world’s leading portfolio of content-driven, must-attend events delivering an outstanding experience and ROI for our customers. The Group recently launched its Transformation & Growth (TAG) programme, which is designed to transform the Company from a geographic-led business to a product-led business that focuses on market-leading events, wherever they are in the world. ITE strives to run the best shows and offer the best service to its customers throughout the world regardless of location. By putting exhibitors and visitors at the heart of everything we do, we plan to drive sustainable growth for our shareholders.