Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Job creation, empowerment and enablement are at the core of Bizcommunity’s (www.Bizcommunity.com) business model. Every month Bizcommunity, South Africa and Africa’s biggest online B2B publishers, post up to 4000 job vacancies on behalf of corporate and recruiter clients. The most abundant jobs usually appear in Marketing & Media, ICT, Retail, Finance and Tourism sectors, with a total of 18 industries across Africa.  Bizcommunity has been the recruitment publishing specialist on behalf of our corporate, recruiter and job-seeking readers since 2001. Our mission has been to redefine African commerce as visionary, connected and innovative, where exceptional talent and tech trade freely in successful African futures.  From December 2018 to February 2019 we consolidate this position with a comprehensive B2B Recruitment Focus that will ensure that Bizcommunity is the go-to destination for all the B2B news you’ll need to plan your HR & Recruitment strategies in 2019.  The #BizRecruitmentFocus will include:  EE compliance and B-BBEE system, EE Act 	Minimum wage compliance 	SETA industry offerings 	Jobs you don't need degrees for (but short courses / free MOOCs) 	Salary surveys (potential sources – MCI, LinkedIn, Placement Partners, Ad Talent) 	Transforming the workplace / workplace diversity 	Job creation – addressing unemployment 	Employee wellness and incentives 	Employer branding / reputation management 	Talent acquisition 	Qualification verification – why background checks are more important than ever 	Future jobs – AI, M2M, reinventing yourself 	Rare skills you should hang onto 	Social media and employability 	Evolution of performance reviews 	Internships 	The CV 3.0 – what recruiters are looking for 	Recruiter disruption 	Job ads – phishing and fraud 	Working in Africa We’re inviting you to join us in our quest for a vibrant empowered African workforce, by publishing your recruitment content, stories and new year vacancy posts. Get company profiling, featured positions, social media and banner ad space exposure for job posts and recruiters in relevant industry sectors on the dedicated B2B news and recruitment platforms in Africa.  We’ll also be circulating this valuable focus report to our media industry partners and influencers providing great exposure for recruiters and job posts alike.  Recruitment packages and  Recruitment Focus Report sponsorship:  What you get:  Permanent ad throughout all pages of the Recruitment Focus Special Section for one year 	Sponsor logos will appear in the feature box on the home page and throughout the whole site for one month. 	The special focus is included in all 18 industry newsletters to 320,000 subscribers. Each sponsor has 18 insertions, one in each industry newsletter. Contact our dedicated Recruiter Account Manager recruitment@bizcommunity.com, or call 0860 812 000 to chat about everything recruitment in Africa! Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Bizcommunity.Media filesDownload logo